## Initial Release 6.0.0

!!! note "Version Number"

    The v6.0 release is the first version of the BSP. We are using this
    version number to indicate that this is the successor of the legacy
    i.MX Dunfell BSP with version number v5.0.

### General Information

* Usage of `kas` integration tool, replacing the custom scripts used in previous
  BSPs
* Usage of a new monorepo `meta-ked-bsp`, replacing the build and meta layer
  repositories used in previous BSPs

### Integrated Components

* Yocto 4.0 LTS "Kirkstone" (layers compatible with 3.1 LTS "Dunfell")
* Linux 6.1 LTS with KED backports and patches
* U-Boot 2023.04 with KED backports and patches

### Supported Hardware

| Product Numbers | Product Name | Product Type | Status |
| --------------- | ------------ | ------------ | ------ |
| 40099 122 | SL i.MX6 UL | SoM | Not Supported (Unverified) |
| 40099 145 | SL i.MX6 ULL | SoM | Not Supported (Unverified) |
| 40099 167 | SL STM32 MP157 | SoM | Not Supported (Planned) |
| 40099 175<br>40099 185<br>40099 242<br>40099 212 | SL i.MX8M Mini Quad | SoM | Supported |
| 40099 227<br>40099 229<br>40099 239<br>40099 231 | OSM-S i.MX8M Mini Quad | SoM | Supported |
| 41099 248 | OSM-S i.MX8M Plus | SoM | Not Supported (Planned) |
| 40099 148 | BL i.MX6 ULL | Board | Not Supported (Unverified) |
| 40099 176 | BL STM32 MP157 | Board | Not Supported (Planned) |
| 40099 187<br>40099 220 | BL i.MX8M-Mini Quad | Board | Supported (Basic[^1]) |

### Breaking Changes Compared to Dunfell BSP (5.0)

* SPL and U-Boot proper images are now merged into a single `flash.bin` instead
  of two separate images.
* SPI NOR partitioning and offsets have been altered:
  * single partition for U-Boot and SPL
  * changed offset for environment to the end of the SPI NOR
  * changed offset for U-Boot proper to be the same on SPI NOR and eMMC
* U-Boot environment was reworked
* SWUpdate configuration was optimized
* Naming of layers, distro, images, etc. has been changed from `ktn` to `ked`

### Known Issues

* The onboard USB hub on the BL i.MX8MM doesn't work in U-Boot.
* The A/B boot scheme can be bricked by multiple updates with a broken kernel
  image.
* The fw_getenv/setenv tools can't deal with the different possibilities for
  the location of the U-Boot environment on i.MX8MM (SPI NOR, SD card, eMMC).
* If the U-Boot environment for i.MX8MM is placed in the eMMC hardware partition
  (boot0) it is not aligned to the end of the partition, but uses the same
  fixed offset as on SPI NOR and SD card.
* There is misconfigured dependency that requires the `xxd` tool to be installed
  on the build host/container.

[^1]: Basic support doesn't include all features of the board. Especially
      advanced peripherals like display, graphics, hardware acceleration units,
      camera interfaces, etc. might not be supported or tested yet.
