## Changes from 6.0.0 to 6.1.0-dev (work in progress)

### Integrated Components

* Yocto 4.0 LTS "Kirkstone" (4.0.12). Layers compatible with 3.1 LTS "Dunfell"
* Linux 6.1 LTS (6.1.45) with KED backports and patches
* U-Boot 2023.04 with KED backports and patches

### Supported Hardware

| Product Numbers | Product Name | Product Type | Status |
| --------------- | ------------ | ------------ | ------ |
| 40099 122 | SL i.MX6 UL | SoM | Not Supported (Unverified) |
| 40099 145 | SL i.MX6 ULL | SoM | Not Supported (Unverified) |
| 40099 167 | SL STM32 MP157 | SoM | Not Supported (Planned) |
| 40099 175<br>40099 185<br>40099 242<br>40099 212 | SL i.MX8M Mini Quad | SoM | Supported |
| 40099 227<br>40099 229<br>40099 239<br>40099 231 | OSM-S i.MX8M Mini Quad | SoM | Supported |
| 41099 248 | OSM-S i.MX8M Plus | SoM | Supported |
| 40099 148 | BL i.MX6 ULL | Board | Not Supported (Unverified) |
| 40099 176 | BL STM32 MP157 | Board | Not Supported (Planned) |
| 40099 187<br>40099 220 | BL i.MX8M-Mini Quad | Board | Supported (Basic[^1]) |
|  | BL i.MX8M-Plus Quad | Board | Supported (Basic[^1]) |

### Core/Distro Changes (all HW Platforms)

* Deactivate start of virtual terminal on `tty0` in `ked` distro (`USE_VT =
  "0"`)
* Improve CI configuration
* Fix `xxd` host tool dependency (move to `goodix-touchconfig` recipe)
* Update to Yocto 4.0.12 and 3.1.27
* Update all meta layers

### Changes for i.MX Platforms

* Improve devshell settings for `u-boot-ktn` and `linux-ktn`
* Enable `CONFIG_DYNAMIC_DEBUG` in `linux-ktn`
* Fix an issue with fitImage selection in A/B boot flow
* Update to Linux 6.1.45
* Update U-Boot patches

#### Changes for i.MX8 Platform

* Add support for OSM-S/BL i.MX8MP hardware
* Add a solution for `fw_getenv/setenv` to automatically use the environment
  on the device that is used by the bootloader.
* Move the U-Boot environment on the eMMC hardware partition (`boot0`) to the
  end of the partition.

#### Changes for i.MX6 Platform

* Add support for DPI display interface on BL boards (configuration
  `imx6ull-kontron-dl`)
* U-Boot: Change default device tree boot configuration from `imx6ul-kontron-bl`
  to `imx6ull-kontron-dl`
* Linux: Changes in kernel config
  * Virtual terminals deactivated (`CONFIG_VT`)
  * Most resistive touch drivers removed

### Changes for STM32MP1 Platform

* none

### Breaking Changes

* i.MX6: Default u-boot configuration changed from SOC `ul` variant to `ull`
  variant. So for `ul` variants the boot config has to be adapted manually in
  u-boot environment now!
* The location of the environment on the eMMC of i.MX8MM devices is moved to
  the end of the `boot0` hardware partition.

### Known Issues

* The onboard USB hub on the BL i.MX8MM doesn't work in U-Boot.
* Devices connected to the USB-C connector of the BL i.MX8MP before booting up
  the board are not detected and need to be reconnected after booting.

[^1]: Basic support doesn't include all features of the board. Especially
      advanced peripherals like display, graphics, hardware acceleration units,
      camera interfaces, etc. might not be supported or tested yet.
